# Machine-Learning-Engineer-Nanodegree-Capstone-PROJECT-ANALYSIS

*****PROJECT SPECIFICATION: Machine Learning Capstone Analysis Project*****  
This capstone project involves machine learning modeling and analysis of clinical, demographic, and brain related derived anatomic measures from human MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) tests (http://www.oasis-brains.org/). The objectives of these measurements are to diagnose the level of Dementia in the individuals and the probability that these individuals may have Alzheimer's Disease (AD).  In published studies, Machine Learning has been applied to Alzheimer’s/Dementia identification from MRI scans and related data in the academic papers/theses in References 10 and 11 listed in the References Section below. Recently, a close relative of mine had to undergo a sequence of MRI tests for cognition difficulties.The motivation for choosing this topic for the Capstone project arose from the desire to understand and analyze potential for Dementia and AD from MRI related data. Cognitive testing, clinical assessments and demographic data related to these MRI tests are used in this project. This Capstone project does not use the MRI "imaging" data and does not focus on AD, focusses only on Dementia.  

*****Conclusions, Justification, and Reflections*****
The formulation of OASIS data (Ref 1 and 2) in terms of a dementia classification problem based on demographic and clinical data only (and without directly using the MRI image data), is a simplification that has major advantages and appeal. This means the trained model can classify whether an individual has dementia or not with about 87% accuracy, without having to wait for radiological interpretation of MRI scans. This can provide an early alert for intervention and initiation of treatment for those with onset of dementia.  The assumption that the combined cross-sectional and longitudinal datasets would lead to dementia label classification of acceptable accuracy came out to be true. The method required careful data cleaning and data preparation work, converting it to a binary classification problem, as outlined in this notebook.  At the outset it was not clear which algorithm(s) would be more appropriate for the binary and multi-label classification problem. The approach of spot checking the algorithms early for accuracy led to the determination of a smaller set of algorithms with higher accuracy (e.g. Gadient Boosting and Random Forest) for a deeper dive examination, e.g. use of a k-fold cross-validation approach in classifying the CDR label.  The neural network benchmark model accuracy of 78% for binary classification was exceeded by the classification accuracy of the main output of this study, the trained Gradient Boosting and Random Forest classification models. This builds confidence in the latter model for further training with new data and further classification use for new patients.
